URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/11/61-family-trouble/
Transcript: Maria is outside her dorm building, on a cell phone with her mother. MARIA: Mom, I cannot BELIEVE you! MARIA: What I mean is, you failed to inform the school that I’m trans. I know it makes dad “uncomfortable”, but this is beyond- MARIA: Of COURSE that kind of thing matters, mom! I have a very bewildered, very MALE roommate. In a suite full of MEN. Where people use the MEN’S room. Because you didn’t think it was important to inform the school that I AM NOT A MAN. MARIA: What?? MARIA: Do you realize what you’re suggesting? Besides being completely impractical and insulting, this is about my safety, mom… MARIA: They will know I’m the same person, mom. I’m transgender, I’m not Clark Kent.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/02/11-community-service/
Transcript: SAM enters Bluestocking Books. SAM removes a book from the shelf and puts something in it. EVE: Sam, uh... what are you doing to the books? SAM: Oh, I've been putting these cards from the local abuse shelter in every copy of the Twilight series in town. EVE pauses thoughtfully. EVE: Can I help?
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/10/59-goodbye/
Transcript: Wren approaches Candice, who sits on her bed. CANDICE: Could we be, penpals or something? I feel like phone calls might be too intense for a while. WREN: Of course. Yes! I’ll write to you all the time. Wren joins Candice on the bed. CANDICE: No you won’t. WREN: Yeah, I’m terrible at mailing things. CANDICE: But that’s ok. That’s the point of a break, right? Get some space? WREN: I guess so. They lean in close to each other. CANDICE: So this is our last night on the same coast. What do you want to do? WREN: Heh, I think you know. CANDICE: Yeah. I do. They watch Buffy the Vampire Slayer and cuddle.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/06/27-book-club/
Transcript: SAM: Hey Julia, where is everybody? JULIA: Oh, Maggie had to work. And I think Pat’s on vacation in Alaska or something? SAM: Oh. Well, I guess it’s just the two of us, then. SAM: So! I was totally charmed by this month’s book. The way Kelly Link constructs a narrative is so mesmerizing. I read the whole thing in one day. What did you think, Jules? JULIA: It was, uh, good. I liked the characters. SAM: Which one was your favorite? JULIA: The… protagonist. SAM: …it’s a collection of short stories. JULIA: Yeah, I meant, ALL the protagonists! SAM: Why did you even join this book club if you have no intention of reading? JULIA: Maybe I would read if the club took my suggestions! SAM: Julia, we can’t read a Sookie Stackhouse novel every month.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/09/50-success/
Transcript: Maria is sunny and cheerful in Bluestockings. Her sundress even has suns on it. Wren is sitting on a stack of books, looking gloomy. MARIA: Good morning! WREN: What are you so chipper about? EVE looks out the front window. EVE: What the – are there – protestors gathering across the street? Protestors across the street, including Maria’s priest, are holding signs: NO FILTH FOR OUR CHILDREN, DIRTY BOOKS GET DIRTY LOOKS, WHAT WOULD OUR FOUNDING FATHERS THINK??, HOMOSEXUAL AGENDA/NOT IN OUR TOWN Eve looks at Maria bewildered, as she throws her arms into the air victoriously. MARIA: SUCCESS
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/07/35-stepbrad/
Transcript: WREN’S DAD: Hey hun! You’re just in time for brunch. BRAD: I ate, thanks. But I bought some bacon cupcakes for the little deviants. SAM: I prefer the term radical, and I’m a vegetarian. WREN’S DAD: I’ll have one, hun. How was the show? SAM: Show? WREN: Brad’s an actor. That’s why he wasn’t around last night. He’s got his midnight shows. SAM: What kind of show does he do at midnight…? WREN: It's kinda cute, actually. He’s Rocky. SAM: Who? WREN: You know. Rocky Horror. BRAD: Don’t make fun. No cupcakes for you. WREN: I’m not! It’s way cooler than your day job! BRAD: Hey! Samuel Adams was a GREAT MAN, I'm sure, and assuming his likeness to promote quality crafted beer is a COMPLIMENT.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/06/25-the-story-within-the-story-so-far/
Transcript: CANDICE: Ok, you have to fill me in on the comic. How awesome is it so far? WREN: SO awesome! WREN: We talked it out, and Sam agreed with the bad guys being a medical technology corporation that’s a front for an evil scientist doing experiments to ‘enhance’ humans, because, exploitation and control of marginalized bodies via medicalization? So a theme we’re all itching to take on. But our heroes – the derby girls who get wise to the operation when one of their team goes missing – are going to gain their powers consensually with a help from a defect from the establishment. Annika gets perfect reflexes and she’s super fast and she doesn’t sleep. Grace has super senses which develop to the point that she takes in so much about everything and everyone around her that she’s basically telepathic. Hye-Jin can control her body heat and project it, but if that control keeps developing she could almost become invincible – we haven’t fleshed out all of the details but, man, thinking about the mechanics of super powers is sooo much fun. WREN:I’m so glad we’re doing it. All my animosity towards the world, like, melted away when we were working on it. CANDICE: Wow. That takes a lot for you. WREN: Right? Making progressive comics is the equivalent of five gay pride parades and a thai iced tea for my soul.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/11/63-serendipitous/
Transcript: Wren and Maria sit down together. WREN: So, did you talk to housing? MARIA: Yeah, and I brought the president of the Queer Alliance for back-up. We got it fixed. WREN: Sweet, so they’re letting you switch into my room? MARIA: Uh, actually… the school let me out of my contract and my grandma’s going to help me pay for an off-campus place. After this mess, I don’t really want to deal with dorm life, even if it was with you. WREN: Great, now who I am going to – Sam enters and interrupts. SAM: MY ROOMATE. HAS NEVER. READ A BOOK. WREN: Whoa, do you mean she, like, never read a non-school book? SAM: I, I don’t know, I kind of blacked out when she started talking about why she thinks “movies are better anyway”.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/07/34-life-skills/
Transcript: SAM, MARIA, WREN: WOO HOO! WREN’S DAD: What just happened? WREN: Sam just completed the very last page of our first comic! MARIA: We should go to Bluestockings right now and talk to Eve about making copies! WREN’S DAD: Girls, you realize it’s four in the morning, right? SAM: WHAT?? MARIA: SERIOUSLY?? SAM: Oh no, it’s true, AND my mom tried to call me half a dozen times! She is going to be so mad at me! WREN’S DAD: You can both sleep over here if you want to and call in the morning. You’ll still be in trouble, but you won’t be wandering the streets at this ungodly hour. MARIA: Thanks, Mr. Watanabe. WREN: Sorry we woke you up, dad, and thanks for being so cool about this. WREN’S DAD: You’re moving out in a month. I’m feeling paternal. Plus, pulling all-nighters and disappointing your parents are both useful college skills.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/04/18-therapy/
Transcript: A doorbell rings. MARIA: I've got the door! WREN: Uh, hey. MARIA: Hey. Um. I'm sorry if I... WREN: ...sniff... MARIA: ...are you ok? WREN: I think C-Candice and I just b-broke up! Buh huh huh... MARIA: Oh honey, I'm so sorry. Come on inside, I'll prepare the therapy. WREN: Sniff. MARIA: Their love was so beautiful. TV: Your shirt... TV: Tara!?
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/01/4-not-a-bad-idea/
Transcript: MARIA: This isn't just a Joss Whedon thing, y'know. MARIA: Storm descended from an Witch-Priestess. When Professor Xavier recruited her, she was being worshiped as a goddess by loincloth-wearing Africans. And she was topless. WREN: And now she's the most empowerful blue-eyed black superhero ever! MARIA: That's NOT what I'm saying! MARIA: I'm saying, this isn't an individual problem. It's not something about Joss Whedon or any other one comic or TV writer. There's a larger culture of racism and misogyny and all, that permeates all levels of media y'all, no comic today on accounta how I've got all these squiggly hurty lines tonight. Also I'm apparently supposed to go places and do things tomorrow?
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/08/42-she-was-born-for-this/
Transcript: SAM: Got your text message, Wren. Is it really true? WREN: Yes. So there’s not time to lose. Candice! CANDICE: Yes? WREN: Do you have some poems that will pierce the heart of apathy and move people to act as a community? CANDICE: I think so. WREN: Perfect! We’re going to organize a big event to fundraise and I want you to be the headliner. Tell everybody you know. WREN: Maria! How many readers does that blog of yours have in the tri-state area? MARIA: Uh, maybe a dozen? WREN: Recruit them! And do some recon on youtube. We want to get our cause to go viral ASAP. MARIA: Yes’sir! WREN: Sam! Tell your book club. In fact, hold your book club meetings here from now on. And get to work on a poster for our fundraiser. SAM: Can do! CANDICE: What are you going to do, Wren? Wren wears a sandwich board reading, SAVE LOCAL BUSINESS – BUY AT BLUESTOCKINGS and holds some pamphlets in the air. Some pedestrians stare at her over their shoulders. WREN: Hey you! Take a pamphlet and buy some friggin books!!
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/09/gender-outlaws-the-next-generation/
Transcript: 1 GENDER OUTLAWS: THE NEXT GENERATION edited by Kate Bornstein and S. Bear Bergman RJ “overlooks” the comic from a bubble in the upper right corner. RJ: First of all, can I tell you how refreshing it is to read a book with the phrase “transpeople and genderqueers” on the back and doesn’t feel the need to explain itself? Below, one person in a lifeguard uniform stands on a shore, looking to the left and motioning towards the water. Three people are in the water – one is snorkeling, one is playing with a beach ball and one is shouting. RJ (in narration box): Other books may try to coax you to the water… PERSON ON COAST: I’ll explain it to you, it’s not so scary! RJ (narration): While Gender Outlaws: TNG shouts at you from the deep end. PERSON IN WATER: Aw, come on, JUMP IN already! 2 Kate Bornstein is in the upper left, wearing a cowboy hat and vest and wielding a pencil. RJ (narration): It’s been over a decade since Kate Bornstein proclaimed in pages of Gender Outlaw that ze is neither man nor woman. I know hir book was incredibly important to me and other outlaws. It gave us a feeling of, Yes, there are People Like Me! We exist! We’re grand! The knowledge that we’re not alone is enormously powerful grounding. In the lower right, three outlaws are gathered. One has slick dark hair, wears a leather jacket and uses a cane. Another is wearing a striped shirt, holding a pencil, has a tuft of light hair on top of their otherwise shaved head, and sports a pirate-like eyepatch. Another is wearing a hat and outfit reminiscent of Robin Hood, has dreadlocks and is using a laptop computer. RJ (narration): GO:TNG is able to blow right past “we exist!” to explore the many ways we exist – genderqueers and transpeople are a merry band of outlaws now, connected like never before by the internet and spectacular trans activism. 3 To the left, RJ stands with their hands palm up as if they are weighing invisible objects. Around them, there float several phrases with arrows point to them: American, doesn’t pass, female assigned at birth, anxiety, child of divorce, white, college educated, partnered, able-bodied. RJ: But we’re all also very much doing our own thing, as it were.… juggling different oppressions and privileges, existing in different social worlds, inhabiting inseparable intersecting identities… Gender Outlaws isn’t trying to simplify or explain a single “trans experience”. In the bottom right, a human figure in shadow holds up a slightly misshaped heart with a bandaid over it. From the heart emanates purple and orange music notes, lightning bolts, waves, spirals and spikes. RJ: It’s a heartfelt attempt to portray just how complex, messy, beautiful and ugly this stuff all really is! 4 Upper left, RJ appears bald and in Captain Picard’s uniform. Upper left, Sarah of The Princess and Sam Orchard of Rooster Tails smile and wave. RJ: Since this is a comic by a nrrd and for nrrds, I know what you’re wondering. Yes, it’s subtle, but they make the Star Trek reference, in the introduction. And if you love comics (why else would you be reading this?) you’ll be pleased to find a few in GO: TNG, including some friendly faces from the webcomics world! RJ (narration): Language geeks like myself may find themselves challenged by the word choices of a few contributors, and perhaps even the editors (Kate Bornstein and S. Bear Bergman) themselves… Lower left, RJ reads the book, they appear angry. RJ: GENETIC GIRL? I may have two X chromosomes, but GIRL I AIN’T. Lower right, RJ reads the book, they appear disappointed. RJ: I get why some use tranny… I mean, I LOVE the word “queer”… but I still wish there was a piece from someone on why they don’t… 5 RJ (narration): While other pieces will totally charm and delight you. Below left, RJ throws up their hands victoriously, the open book is in one hand. RJ: YES! You school ‘em, Serano! Below right, RJ holds the book with one hand and pulls at their shirt strap with the other. A heart floats near their head. RJ: Oooh, Latin roots… is it getting hot in here, Johnny Blazes and Katie Diamond? RJ (narration): A few pieces in the bunch hit me sort of like this: Below right, the book floats as a wave of that goes FOOM hits RJ in the face with force. A tear rolls down their cheek. RJ: (narration) And I found myself wanting to pass the book on, a lot. RJ holds out the book to a person with glasses who wears a shirt that says “Patient Friend”. RJ: YOU MUST READ SCOTT TURNER SCHOFIELD’S PIECE. Oh, and Ryka Aoki’s! And, and Andrea Jenkins’ thing on self-love… and Zev Al-Walid’s… and… and… 6 RJ overlooks the comic again in a bubble in the upper left. RJ: That’s just the point of recording a “new generation”, isn’t it? Passing something on? As Bornstein and Bergman point out in their (adorable IM conversation) introduction, many of the writers in GO: TNG are starting out further than where Bornstein was when ze finished the original Gender Outlaw. It makes me wonder, ten or twenty years from now, where the kids who pick up a dusty old copy of GO:TNG will be at… Below right, RJ looks thoughtful. RJ: Gee, I consider myself part of this generation, and I guess all our creative and radical ideas about gender will be old news. Below left, RJ looks excited. RJ: How exhilarating!
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/12/70-high-femme/
Transcript: Sam sits in the foreground, only her face and shoulders visible. Wren enters in background. SAM: Hey, you better get ready if you’re going to the drag dance! WREN: There’s a drag event? Tonight? SAM: Yeah, it’s the queer alliance’s big fall fundraiser. I left a flyer on your corkboard. WREN: …I have a corkboard? Wren looks at purple drag dance flyer. WREN: See, here’s the problem with this flyer. It says “dance”. I am not a dance person. I am a Super Smash Brothers Tournament person. Can the queer alliance have one of those? SAM: Come on, it’ll be fun. It’s drag! WREN: Then why are you putting on earrings? SAM: Don’t be so binary, Wren. There’s more than one way to play with gender. I’m going as a high femme. WREN: So, this is in contrast to…? SAM: I’m going as a high, high, HIGH femme. Full view of Sam and Wren. Sam has ginormous hair. WREN: I see. mouseover: I have not decided fully if Sam is wearing a towel or if that is her dress.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/03/13-revelation/
Transcript: MARIA: Hey, sorry I’m late. I wanted to change after church. Are you guys ready to talk comics? SAM: We WERE but APPARENTLY I’m some kind of IGNORANT PEASANT for using the phrase “yeti soldiers”. MARIA: ...Ok. Where's Wren? SAM: She stormed into the other room to escape my STUPID. MARIA: Listen. I’m having a bad day. I get that Sam can be a snob sometimes, but can you just be the bigger person and put your issues with her aside for forty-five minutes? WREN: Did you HEAR what she called wookies? I don’t think she’s ever SEEN Star Wars! MARIA: Seriously? You are such a hypocrite. Who cares if she’s never seen Star Wars? Hell, we haven’t watched the original trilogy since we were preparing for Episode I. That was like, ten years ago. WREN: What? No. That can’t be right. We - ten years? That’s not true. That’s impossible... MARIA: Search your feelings, jerk, you know it to be true. WREN: NO! NOOO!
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/10/58-my-child-is-a-problem-student/
Transcript: Maria and Candice chat under a banner that says "GOOD LUCK WREN." Eve also chats to someone out of view. Wren's dad, Eric, hugs her from behind. ERIC: I can’t believe it! You’re going away to college. WREN: Dad, campus is like, half an hour away. It’s not a big deal. ERIC: But it is! You’re so grown up. WREN: You are going to be SO disappointed when I get kicked out. ERIC: Wren, don’t even say that! You’re very bright. I know high school wasn’t a picnic, but college is much different, you’ll do fine. WREN: Oh, I wasn’t thinking in the “flunked out” sense. ERIC: Ah, of course, I assume then it was in the “led an anarchist revolt against the administration” sense? WREN: Yes, that, or the “accidentally burnt down her dorm when her unsupervised xbox modification went horribly awry” sense.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/08/40-dun-dun-dunnn/
Transcript: Wren enters Bluestocking Books, looking eager. Eve looks awkward. WREN: Morning, Eve! EVE: Oh, uh, hi, Wren. WREN: Ready for another day of peddling our literary wares to the masses? EVE: Wren, listen… Wren remains excited, clueless to the fact that Eve is now irritated. WREN: Wait, ok, I know I didn’t sell any zines yesterday… EVE: Wren. WREN: And maybe I’m getting ahead of myself, but I have a marketing strategy- EVE: Wren? WREN: Maybe if we put some other comics up at the front desk, the classic titles could draw people’s eye, and then… EVE: WREN. LISTEN. EVE rubs her forehead while WREN looks shocked. WREN looks timid as EVE begins to cry. WREN: Or, I could… throw away the zines… and leave you alone forever. EVE: Wren, honey… I have to close Bluestockings.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/08/37-technical-difficulties/
Transcript: Eve is leaving the copy room in Bluestockings as Wren is lifting the top of the photocopier. EVE: It’s all yours. Shout if you have any problems! WREN: Thanks Eve! I’ll be fine. the first copy comes out crooked. WREN: Oops! I’ll just adjust the original… the second copy comes out crinkled WREN: Crap! Paper jam. the third copy is extremely low quality. WREN: How did I even do this? Candice tentatively enters the copy room. CANDICE: Wren? Eve said you were back here… uh, are you ok? Wren sits on the floor holding one perfect copy, awash in a sea of crumpled pages. WREN: It took me two hours, but I did it! CANDICE: It took you two hours to make one copy? WREN: It took me two hours to make the one page.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/11/64-qualified/
Transcript: BOSS: We’re always so glad to meet our new work-study students. This interview will be brief; we just want to make sure you’re a good fit with us. BOSS: So… Wren Watanabe. Why did you choose the Minority Students Resource Center? WREN: Uh, well. I had to choose something for work-study. And this seemed like it could be alright. BOSS: Oh. …ok. Do you have any experience working in an office? WREN: No. BOSS: Do you know how to use a copying machine? WREN: Honestly? BOSS: Do you have phone skills? WREN: I mean, I’ve USED a phone. BOSS: And if a student came in asking where the “white students resource center” is, you would… WREN: Pffft, tell them to check the history department. BOSS: Welcome to the team.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/08/44-ruthless-but-fair/
Transcript: Sam’s mom sits at her dining room table as Sam enters. Sam looks exasperated. SAM’S MOM: How was your first day of class? SAM: WHOLLY aggravating. SAM: Our instructor talks down to us and calls all the girls “honey” and “sweetie” and told us “men are like animals” and he talks about sexual assault with the assumption that nobody in the room has ever experienced it, like it’s something that happens to THOSE women out THERE, and like violence only comes from men jumping out of dark alley ways, and it’s so removed from our reality! And to top it off, he told us the class could also help us lose some weight and winked at me. SAM’S MOM: Ok. Punishment over. SAM: What? Really? Does that mean I get to quit? SAM’S MOM: Nope. SAM: But mom- SAM’S MOM: What kind of mother would I be if I put you through that and didn’t let you actually learn any moves? And practice those moves, repeatedly, on an instructor. SAM: I… huh.You know you’re a little too good at this vengeance and cruelty thing, right? SAM’S MOM: What can I say? I’m a capitalist.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/02/8-womyn-bliss/
Transcript: WREN: Eve! WREN:Sam and Maria and I are going to start our own comics with these really badass heroines. If we make a zine, could we sell it here? EVE: Of course you can, Wren. You could even use the photocopy machine in the back room, if you chip in for ink and paper once in a while. WREN:Thanks! EVE: No problem. I love to help my fellow zinesters. WREN: You make zines? EVE: Sure, me and some gal-friends got into all sorts of DIY projects a few years back. EVE: In fact I think I still have a copy of it back here... EVE: Yup, here she is! WREN: Wow, Eve, this is so cool... a list of lesbian-owned coffee shops on the East Coast... a review of Tracy Chapman's first album... a recipe for vegan gluten-free ice cream... and... MARIA: Ooo, neat! WREN: Is this artistic rendering of YOUR vagina? EVE: Huh. Could be. Looks familiar. Maybe it's Nadia's... I just hope it's not Hazel's. She ended up working on the Scott Brown campaign.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/08/38-i-blame-clock-montages/
Transcript: In the copy room of Bluestockings, Candice holds a finished copy of the zine. CANDICE: Looks good! WREN: How did you do that? CANDICE: I can conquer pretty much anything with a display screen. At the Bluestockings front desk, Candice places the zine in a display while Wren looks triumphant. CANDICE: There! Now what? WREN: Sell them! Wooo! They wait. They wait. They wait. They wait. By the end, Candice looks worried and Wren looks angry. Eve joins them, the clock behind them indicates they have been waiting over six hours. EVE: Sorry your first day was slow, girls. I blame the economy. WREN: Well, I blame the kyriarchy! CANDICE: I blame our expectations built upon an illusion of bootstrap opportunity at once conjectured and crushed by unchecked capitalism.
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/09/49-the-oscar-goes-to/
Transcript: Maria sits in the office of her priest. MARIA: I’m sorry to bother you, Father. FATHER ROGER: No problem – Maria, was it? I’m always glad to see young people taking interest in the Church. What can I do for you? MARIA: I just had a… theological question. But it’s embarrassing. FATHER ROGER: Don’t worry, I’m here to help. MARIA: Well… is it a sin to buy a Bible from a gay bookstore? FATHER ROGER: Wha… uh, I don’t know that… ahem… why were you in a gay bookstore in the first place, child? MARIA: I was in the bookstore in town, on East Street. Bluestockings? FATHER ROGER: There’s a GAY bookstore, HERE? MARIA: Am, am I going to hell, Father? FATHER ROGER: No, I think this is, perhaps, God’s work. I thank you for bringing this to my attention. I’m sorry to cut this short, I have to make some calls… MARIA: No problem, Father. I do, too...
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/11/60-roommate-trouble/
Transcript: MARIA hangs up her Janelle poster in her new dorm room. CASEY: Uh, hello? MARIA: Oh, hi! Can I help you? CASEY: I don’t think I’m in the right room. My name’s Casey Reyes…? MARIA’s face falls. MARIA: It is devastating for me to inform you that, yes, you are in the right room. I’m just here to take down that poster. CASEY: Uh, thanks. Are you my roommate’s sister?
URL:http://www.riotnrrdcomics.com/2010/09/51-all-according-to-plan/
Transcript: Maria, Wren and Even watch the unseen proteste